Union (1992-)
-------------
POL> Agentx (music, 94), Amst (code, 94), Berserker (rayrace, 12/94), Brent
     (gfx), Dan (music, 12/94), Docent (code, 12/92), Dr.DF0 (12/92), Easy
     Rider (12/92), Hali (Karol Gozlinsko, code music, 94-96), Hires (gfx,
     11/94), Irek P (swap, 12/92), Kefir (Marek Duda, code, 03/95), Kulfon
     (music, 94), Mad Mack (gfx, 11/94), Magor (gfx, 03/95), Mr.Root (Robert
     Korzeniewski, music, 12/92), Musashi (Gregorz Wroblewski, code, ex
     Deform, 12/92-08/95), Ninja (Marek Lulkiewicz, 12/92), Pic (gfx,
     08/95), PIl (Thomas, code, 08/95), PP (code, 08/95), Roberts (music,
     08/95), Scorpic (music, 12/94), Scorpio (code gfx, 12/92), Sixtus
     (music, 08/95), Snoopy (Wojciech Panufnik, music, 05/93-08/95), Tees
     (gfx, 94), The Generat (gfx swap), Zajc (code, 11/94).

Union was formed in 1992 by members of the groups Deform, Action Direct and
Katharsis, based around the city of Warzaw, Poland. A very fitting name for
a union of three groups... Their main claim to fame must surely be their
amazing coder Musashi, who undoubtedly was Poland's #1 coder. Also, Hali is
the author of the music utility program MOD2SAMP. They are also the long
standing arrangers of the Intel Outside parties in Poland. They also
released the disk mag ZigZag. The Union 'brand' is still around in the form
of a company formed by Docent (http://www.union.pl).
  1992 - The group was formed, and two small intros were released.
  1993 - After releasing a small and unsuccessful (9th place) intro at The
Gathering in april, the group got its act together and released the classic
demo "Hallucinations and Dreams" [05/93] at the Mountain Congress in may,
for which they were awarded second place in the competition. As far as we've
been able to see no more releases were made this year. Musician Snoopy
joined Energy sometime between august and december. It is possible that he
later returned... Late this year Animal (gfx, 12/92-), Katani, Tom (code,
12/92-), Python (gfx, 12/92-), Pluto (12/92-), Seq (12/92-) and XTD (music,
12/92-) all left to join the newly formed polish section of TRSI.
  1994 - April saw the group arranging their first party, the Primavera 94
in Starachowice, Poland. Supposedly they released a demo at this party
("Ambrozja", 7th position), but we have been unable to find any record of it
outside of the party results... The party arranging duties must have been a
good experience, because only four months later, in august, they were
coarrangers of the Intel Outside 94 in Warzaw with Mystic. Here they
competed in the graphics competition, but not in the intro or demo.   Polish
graphician Lazur left for TPDL (the group built by former Union members Tom
and Python together with Dreamer/TRSI) in september. Their next real release
came with the intro "RGB" [11/94] at Gelloween in november, to a
disappointing 6th position. They rounded the year off with another demo at
The Party in denmark; "Beyond the Future" [12/94] finished 9th in the
competition.
  1995 - Primavera 95 was arranged in march this time. I have no official
info on who arranged it, but it was probably Union once again. They released
the demo "Zoombi" [03/95] at the competition, to a third position, and the
intro "The Remains of the Pizza" [03/95] which finished second. September
saw the group coarranging Intel Outside II, once again in cooperation with
Mystic. The demo competition at this party was a great triumph for the
group, securing BOTH of the top spots in the competition with the demos
"Tear Down The Wall" [09/95] and "Braincell" [09/95] respectively! They also
triumphed in the intro competition, though it's still uncertain which of
their two entries was the winner, since the results just quote groups...
They also secured the top two positions in the video demo category with
"Illuminate" and "Flash of Hope".
  1996 - For the Intel Outside Party 3 in august, they were now sole
arrangers. They also released the demo "Your Amiga Can Do This" [08/96] for
the competition, though it did not finish in the top three. Their video demo
"Rave Extreme" won the video demo competition. Their video demo success
continued at the Gravity 96 party in november, where they once again won
with the video "VHS Number Three".
  1997 - They were coarrangers of Intel Outside 4 in july.
  1998 - Their first production for years came with the release of "IO Party
5 Invitation" [08/98] at Quast 98, to a 7th position in the demno comp =)

Redman (old handle Iceman) joined Mad Elks.

  Bitcity BBS (1992, ECS Intro).
  code: Prospex, gfx: Cygnus, music: "Stabilo Bozo" by Doze (ProTracker MOD
  format). info: This intro announced the birth of the group.

  40k Intro (1992, 28.12, ECS 40k Intro).
  code: Scorpio, Docent, gfx: Scorpio, music: "Economy4" by XTD (ProTracker
  MOD format). 15th in The Party 92 40k intro competition.

  40k Intro (1993, 07.04, ECS Intro).
  9th in The Gathering 93 intro competition.

  Hallucinations and Dreams (1993, 02.05, Trackmo, 2 disks).
  code: Tom, gfx: Animal, Python, music: "Modforhad" by Snoopy,
  "Devastation" by XTD (ProTracker MOD format).
  2nd in the Mountain Congress 93 demo competition.
  info: Named in a 'best Polish demos' list in RAW #6.

  Paradise PD Pack (1994, Intro).
  code: Hali, gfx: Tees (logo), music: "Corrupt" by Kulfon (ProTracker MOD
  format). info: Some Lemon.-like rotating logo. [zeg]

  Strip Tease (1994, File).
  code: Hali, Amst, gfx: Lazur, music: "Eddeban Ax" by Agentx & Hali
  (Protracker MOD format).

  ZigZag #8 (1994, Diskmag).
  code: Docent, gfx: Animal, music: Mr.Root, Snoopy (Promizer 2 format).

  RGB (1994, 13.11, 64k Intro).
  code: Musashi, Zajc, gfx: Hires, Mad Mack (font), music: Snoopy (PP21
  format). 6th in the Gelloween 94 64k intro competition.

  Beyond the Future (1994, 28.12, AGA Demo).
  code: Musashi, gfx: Lazur (logo), Berserker (traced credits logos), music:
  Dan, Scorpic. 9th in The Party 4 demo competition.

  Zoombi (1995, 12.03, Demo).
  code: Kefir, gfx: Magor, music: Snoopy/Scope (The Player 6.1A format).
  3rd in the Primavera 95 demo competition.

  The Remains of the Pizza (1995, 12.03, Intro).
  2nd in the Primavera 95 intro competition.

  Rotate Mania (1995, 30.08, ECS 64k Intro).
  code: PP, gfx: Pic, music: Snoopy (The Player 6.1A format).
  Winner of the Intel Outside II 64k intro competition!
  review: Not a bad little intro, though perhaps not quite good enough to
  reach the very top of the competition. There are some very good routines,
  like the impressive voxel terrain and the fullscreen HAM zoom rotator.
  The music is nice too, with a very distinct c64 flavour to it. Not bad at
  all, is my conclusion :)
    If you run the demo with the parameter '?', like 'Rotate.exe ?' you'll
  be presented with a number of options, like running without sound,
  showing some messages and playing the hidden game. The game is a kind of
  simple airhockey variation. This was PP's first intro for Union. [glenn]
  GLE tested A1200/030-50/2mb chip, 16mb fast/3.0.

  Some Faces (1995, 30.08, 64k Intro).
  code: PIl, gfx: n/a, music: Sixtus (The Player 6.1A format)
  Released for the Intel Outside II 64k intro competition.

  Tear Down The Wall (1995, 30.08, AGA File).
  code/gfx: Musashi, music: Roberts.
  Winner of the Intel Outside 95 demo competition!
  review: Heavily based on Pink Floyd's "The Wall" music and film, that is
  what the first part of this Musashi tour-de-force occupies itself with.
  Using demo effects, it recreates several moments from the film, while a
  sampled rendition of the music plays in the background. Or tries to play,
  since my machine (030-50) wasn't fast enough! As a result, it jerked and
  played the music in jerks and spurts. I was much relieved when the second
  part started, with NORMAL protracked music...It made the routines a whole
  lot more enjoyable to watch :)
    The second part is what I'd describe as the demo part of the show.
  Here's where Musashi gets to do the usual phongs, bumps, zooms,
  spacecuts and even a rather wild little doom without sticking to any
  specific theme. In my opinion, this is the best part of the demo.
  I felt that the theme of the first part was a little limiting for some of
  his routines, making him unable to show their true potential. Here he can.
  One major drawback about the entire demo, however, must surely the ever-
  present shading. This is not the usual right-left pixel or every other
  pixel is black kind, however. It seems a little more flexible and
  variable, but is still quite annoying. I understand that it requires
  less raster time, but that doesn't mean I have to like it ;) Musashi must
  have used some kind of amazing internal compression to squeeze all this
  into one single 867k file - I'd expect the sampled music alone to take
  that much!! To conclude: Wow! Obviously requires some fast. [glenn]
  GLE tested A1200/030-50/2mb chip, 4mb fast/3.0.

  Braincell (1995, 30.08, Demo).
  code: Hali, gfx: Pic, music Mr.Root.
  2nd in the Intel Outside 95 demo competition.
